README.md, before:

# Task Lights

Like music, light (color) is an excellent source of information that the brain can process in the background. A more structured signal, like a clock or count down timer (24:13 minutes) requires our eyes to first shift focus to the location of the information, and then perform a further mental calculation to reason about the time you’ve spent on a task. All that extra thinking can be disruptive of our work.

Simply having the light on is a strong and constant environmental cue that you have a task that you need to complete. The color helps you be aware of your state: (getting started, need to really work, ok — wrap it up time is almost done). Fun trick, try reading this text and see the light in the picture below. Now, what about that 24:13 timer?

![demo](https://media.giphy.com/media/vQsEfQegkAl8s/giphy.gif)

##Instructions for installing on Linux (tested on 14.04 LTS 64-bit):

1. #### Setting up environment
  * Seting up basic requirements:
  ``` bash
  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt-get install git make vim python-dev python-pip
  sudo apt-get install build-essential libssl-dev
  ```

  * Setting up USB library:
  ``` bash
  sudo apt-get install libudev-dev libusb-1.0-0-dev libfox-1.6-dev
  ```

2. #### Installing Node.js:
  * See [tutorial here](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-node-js-on-an-ubuntu-14-04-server) for other ways:
  ``` bash
  curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.16.1/install.sh | sh
  source ~/.profile
  nvm ls-remote
  nvm install v0.12.0
  nvm use 0.12.0
  node -v
  # See where installed
  which node
  ```

  You may want to add `nvm use 0.12.0` add the end of your .bashrc/.profile

3. #### Change directory to src and do:
  ```npm install```


4. #### To get the web-server to work:
  Change directory to `/src/controllers/web` and do
  ```npm install```
  and to start the local-server do the following and go to `http://localhost:5000/` in your browser:
  ```node app.js```





##Instructions for installing on Windows (tested on win 7, 10):

1. #### Setting up environment
  * Seting up basic requirements:
  Install Microsoft Visual Studio (community/express versions are enough)

2. #### Installing Node.js:
  * For 64-bit Windows download and install: [Node.js 0.12.0 64-bit](https://nodejs.org/dist/v0.11.16/x64/node-v0.11.16-x64.msi)
  * For 32-bit Windows download and install: [Node.js 0.12.0 32-bit](https://nodejs.org/dist/v0.12.0/node-v0.12.0-x86.msi)

  You may want to add `PATH/TO/NODE-NPM` to your environment path (if it was not added automatically).

3. #### Change directory to src and do:
  ```npm install```

4. #### To get the web-server to work:
  Change directory to `/src/controllers/web` and do
  ```npm install```
  and to start the local-server do the following and go to `http://localhost:5000/` in your browser:
  ```node app.js```

<br/>

####Command line arguments:
1. Type:
     * `--solid`  or `-s`
     * `--linear` or `-l`
     * `--exponential` or `-e`
2. Length:
     * `--length 10` (in minutes)
3. Lightness (optional):
     * `--lightness 0.7`
4. Pomodoro (25 min linear session):
     * `--pomodoro` or `-p`
     * Ticking sound: `--tick` or `-t`

 For example to do a pomodoro with ticking sound:
 ``` bash
 $ node blink.js -p -t
  ```
 Or to do solid style indicator for 45 minuets: 
 ``` bash
 $ node blink.js --solid --length 45
 ```


<br/>
<br/>
**Want to know more about this research project?** see: [Summary of tasks](https://github.com/alt-code/TaskLights/blob/master/Summary.md)

Commit message:

instruction for adding udev rules

README.md, after:

# Task Lights

Like music, light (color) is an excellent source of information that the brain can process in the background. A more structured signal, like a clock or count down timer (24:13 minutes) requires our eyes to first shift focus to the location of the information, and then perform a further mental calculation to reason about the time you’ve spent on a task. All that extra thinking can be disruptive of our work.

Simply having the light on is a strong and constant environmental cue that you have a task that you need to complete. The color helps you be aware of your state: (getting started, need to really work, ok — wrap it up time is almost done). Fun trick, try reading this text and see the light in the picture below. Now, what about that 24:13 timer?

![demo](https://media.giphy.com/media/vQsEfQegkAl8s/giphy.gif)

##Instructions for installing on Linux (tested on 14.04 LTS 64-bit):

1. #### Setting up environment
  * Seting up basic requirements:
  ``` bash
  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt-get install git make vim python-dev python-pip
  sudo apt-get install build-essential libssl-dev
  ```

  * Setting up USB library:
  ``` bash
  sudo apt-get install libudev-dev libusb-1.0-0-dev libfox-1.6-dev
  ```

2. #### Installing Node.js:
  * See [tutorial here](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-node-js-on-an-ubuntu-14-04-server) for other ways:
  ``` bash
  curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.16.1/install.sh | sh
  source ~/.profile
  nvm ls-remote
  nvm install v0.12.0
  nvm use 0.12.0
  node -v
  # See where installed
  which node
  ```

  You may want to add `nvm use 0.12.0` add the end of your .bashrc/.profile

3. #### Change directory to src and do:
  ```npm install```


4. #### To get the web-server to work:
  Change directory to `/src/controllers/web` and do
  ```npm install```
  and to start the local-server do the following and go to `http://localhost:5000/` in your browser:
  ```node app.js```





##Instructions for installing on Windows (tested on win 7, 10):

1. #### Setting up environment
  * Seting up basic requirements:
  Install Microsoft Visual Studio (community/express versions are enough)

2. #### Installing Node.js:
  * For 64-bit Windows download and install: [Node.js 0.12.0 64-bit](https://nodejs.org/dist/v0.11.16/x64/node-v0.11.16-x64.msi)
  * For 32-bit Windows download and install: [Node.js 0.12.0 32-bit](https://nodejs.org/dist/v0.12.0/node-v0.12.0-x86.msi)

  You may want to add `PATH/TO/NODE-NPM` to your environment path (if it was not added automatically).

3. #### Change directory to src and do:
  ```npm install```

4. #### To get the web-server to work:
  Change directory to `/src/controllers/web` and do
  ```npm install```
  and to start the local-server do the following and go to `http://localhost:5000/` in your browser:
  ```node app.js```

<br/>

#### Command line arguments:
1. Type:
     * `--solid`  or `-s`
     * `--linear` or `-l`
     * `--exponential` or `-e`
2. Length:
     * `--length 10` (in minutes)
3. Lightness (optional):
     * `--lightness 0.7`
4. Pomodoro (25 min linear session):
     * `--pomodoro` or `-p`
     * Ticking sound: `--tick` or `-t`

 For example to do a pomodoro with ticking sound:
 ``` bash
 $ node blink.js -p -t
  ```
 Or to do solid style indicator for 45 minuets:
 ``` bash
 $ node blink.js --solid --length 45
 ```

#### Common errors and solutions:
1. ** USB permission (on linux) ** : </br>
      If you get `cannot open device with path 0001:0004:00` error, you can either use your administrator rights (`sudo`) or by setting a udev rule (copy [51-blink1.rules](https://github.com/todbot/blink1/blob/master/linux/51-blink1.rules) to `/etc/udev/rules.d/`)
      * If you get error when trying to do `sudo node ...` run this command:
       ```
       n=$(which node);n=${n%/bin/node}; chmod -R 755 $n/bin/*; sudo cp -r $n/{bin,lib,share} /usr/local
       ```
       Click [here](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-node-js-with-nvm-node-version-manager-on-a-vps#-installing-nodejs-on-a-vps) for details of how this works.

<br/>
<br/>
**Want to know more about this research project?** see: [Summary of tasks](https://github.com/alt-code/TaskLights/blob/master/Summary.md)
